# Example of a STDIN → FreeSewing → STDOUT pipeline

This repository was setup to answer this question (paraphrased):

> I am a Python dev. How can I use FreeSewing when I have a bunch of settings and all I want is an SVG?

To use FreeSewing in a different environment, there are various technical solutions, but the simplest approach is to push your settings as JSON to the `stdin` of a NodeJS script that will then read the settings from `stdin`, parse them as JSON, generate the pattern, and then dump the resulting SVG to `stdout`.

This repo holds an example of how to do that (in `src/index.mjs`) and some further instructions below.

## Getting started

To try this at home, you will need NodeJS on your system.
Assuming you do, you can clone this repository, cd into it, and install dependencies.

```sh
git clone git@github.com:freesewing/pattern-via-io.git
cd pattern-via-io
npm install
```

Once the dependencies are installed you can run this to try it:

```
cat example-settings.json | node generate-pattern.mjs
```

Or to save it to a file:

```
cat example-settings.json | node generate-pattern.mjs > pattern.svg
```

You can find the `pattern.svg` generated by the example above in this repository.

## Using a different design

This example uses `@freesewing/aaron` which extends `@freesewing/brian`.
If you want to use a different design (for example simon) you should install it:

```
npm i --save @freesewing/simon@next
```

And then change the import in the script.

> **Note:** The `@next` suffix is required until v3 is in GA.

## This example uses v3 code 

This example uses FreeSewing v3 code, which is currently in alpha.

However, we hope to put out a beta soon and hopefully v3 will be GA in q3 of this year.
So for those still developing at this point, v3 probably the best bet.

## Questions?

Join us on Discord at [discord.freesewing.org](https://discord.freesewing.org).
